hello everyone it's elena and i'm back
with another video and today i'm gonna
do an update video on a video that i did
almost two years ago about my high
school experience and what i learned
from it
because i went to a school which was a
united world college
which is part of a group of private
schools
but they claim to be more of a movement
so they even have a mission statement
and yes i had to google it again um i do
know like the rough outline of it
but the exact mission statement is to
make education a force to unite people
nations and cultures for peace and a
sustainable future
and there are quite a few schools around
the world
and the idea is that you put students
from different countries in the world
from different social economic
backgrounds
into one school they lived here together
it's a boarding school and they learn
from each other
and with each other and yeah that's
supposed to have
a lifelong impact on the students and i
thought
i would make these update videos every
once in a while to check whether that is
actually true
so in my last video i made five points
about what i learned from uwc
and i'm gonna reflect on these five
points and
yeah basically determine whether i think
they still hold true
now that i've graduated from uwc two
years ago
the first thing i mentioned in my video
is that it's important not to forget
that there's more to a country than
whatever the news reports
because yes what the news reports is
important but then there's also this
individual perspective
on what it's actually like to live in
that country so what's the culture like
what are the people like
what's the food like things like that
and it's important not to forget about
that individual perspective
and i think i absolutely still agree the
sentiment but the problem is
i have kind of stopped learning about
individual perspectives
for lots of countries and the reason for
that is that i moved to a less diverse
environment
because back when i was at uwc and i
went to uwc in hong kong
i was surrounded by people from about 80
different nationalities
and then i moved to cambridge and
cambridge is significantly less diverse
so now my friendship circle is
significantly less diverse
and so i only learned about the
individual experience in a few countries
and i think the issue is that when
you're not exposed to it and you're not
a little bit you know reminded of the
fact
you know this is how it's like as an
individual like no one points out that
there are different things for
individuals that have to be considered
then you know just a broad statistic in
the news
then it's really easy to sometimes
forget about that
because you read the news and you just
assume okay that just applies everywhere
and that's what
defines a country um so yeah it's
definitely something i'm not proud of
and i do want to learn more about
individuals experiences again
because i do think that gives you more
of a fuller picture
but unfortunately i recognize that
i haven't been doing that a lot for many
countries
over the years um so yeah
it's definitely something which i think
you have to actively seek out once you
leave uwc because then you have to make
sure
you stay in touch and you keep having
these conversations
but it's also so easy not to do that
because well yeah you could start a
conversation on messenger but also
we're all busy in uni and stuff so
it's something i think you have to
actively seek out and i think i
did not do a good enough job of doing
that um
and it's something that i definitely
should be doing a better job at
but yeah that's my reflection on the
first point the next thing i talked
about was the importance of debates and
voicing controversial opinions and i
still agree with that i still think
debating is important i still think it's
important to debate controversial
opinions
but i also think and i also use defenses
back then that there are some opinions
which aren't worth debating which should
never be given a platform
so there i would count things like for
example holocaust denial um
no you don't deserve a platform um so
those things i would not debate
but you know other than things which
clearly cross the line which
should never be crossed um other than
that i'm very happy to have a debate
about it
but i think now that i've been out of
udc for two years i've also learned the
importance of reflecting on my opinions
before voicing them
and that's something i think i didn't do
enough when i was at uwc especially
because of the way that our debates were
structured
because we used to have something called
global issues forum
and there they would give a presentation
on the topic and then we would just
straight up go into debating it
so you didn't have a lot of time to make
up your mind and so you just said the
first thing
that came to mind and that's not
necessarily a bad thing but
now i think i would prefer to actually
take some time
think it through maybe also do a bit of
my own research and look into the
sources that they cited
and then for my opinion um and that's
something i didn't do back then
and i think that's something that i
would do now
and i've also learned the importance of
reflecting on
the system that you're in and that you
sort of
promote because uwc does claim to be a
movement
and i have reflected a lot on that
um after i left it because yes i
absolutely love it and i want to be
completely transparent about the fact i
still volunteer for them
because they gave me an amazing
opportunity they gave me a scholarship
to attend a boarding school abroad
um i am so grateful for that and i am
giving back to them by volunteering for
them
but this video is not made as a
collaboration or anything they don't
know i'm making this video
so um that's not the case but
um i obviously do still like them and
i'm still very positive about them but i
do still think that the movement has
big flaws which i think aren't addressed
enough by uw sears because we like to
look towards the outside and
you know doing charity work things like
that instead of first
examining the flaws that our system has
and how we could do better so some of
the things which i thought about
in that context were for example project
weeks where
students would travel abroad to do
charity work
um which is actually not very
sustainable to put students on a flight
to do a week of charity work
and we claim to be a sustainable
movement or do you ever think the
inaccessibility of uwc
because not every national committee has
enough money
to give full scholarships so some
national committees actually do admit
based on whether or not your parents can
pay for the school
now the german national committee does
not do that and guarantees funding to
anyone who can't afford the place
but certain other countries can't do
that
and that makes uwc still
you know an inaccessible movement in
some areas
and something which has very big
inequalities
on the globe and for a movement which
wants to bring people together based on
their merit
that's a big issue the next thing i
talked about is the importance of
speaking up for yourself because
obviously when you live in a boarding
school environment
you do sometimes have to say hey this
makes me uncomfortable and this is
something which made me
very uncomfortable to say um now that
i'm 20 years old i have lived in
lots of different dorms i can say yeah
i've learned to speak up for myself and
just say i'm not okay with that
and i've also learned that that's
nothing to be uncomfortable
about saying because it's either you say
it
or you stay uncomfortable for like the
rest of the school year or maybe even
two years depending on how long you have
to live with your roommate
or your roommates so uh yeah
speak up for yourself next i talked
about the idea of being able to have
an impact regardless of how old you are
or how experienced you
are and yes and no
about that one so yes i still agree you
can definitely have an impact
but i think i've also learned the
importance of experience
and not necessarily age but i do think
experiences come
kind of with age lots of the time um
so i do still agree you can have an
impact
but i also think you need to evaluate
whether you have enough experience
to start a certain thing whether you've
reflected enough on it students need to
you know have a bit of experience
in order to understand how to actually
do research
how to evaluate certain sources how to
look at different sides of the
disagreement
and to understand different factors that
play a role here
and what is the most effective activism
that you can do
and sometimes activism can do harm so
you need to be very careful about what
you actually do
and i think that definitely does come
with experience
like i didn't know about lots of these
factors until
i you know was with amnesty for a few
years and i was like okay now i think i
start to get
some of the concerns i start to know
what do i need to research
before i even think of what would be an
effective campaign
stuff like that and i do think for that
it does take some experience
but i also still agree that it doesn't
take
years and years and years of experience
to do something good in the world
and anyone can go out there and start
volunteering for an ngo
so while you may need some experience to
actually design a campaign
i still think you can absolutely have a
positive impact right now
by just signing up for an ngo for
example for
a homeless shelter or for example for
helping refugees in your area
you can do so much and you really don't
need experience
you will learn from them and that gets
you experience you need to start
somewhere
so don't take this as an excuse not to
do something because
anyone can do something positive and the
last thing i talked about in my video
was the importance of coming out of your
comfort zone
in order to grow as a person and
yes i still agree with that but i also
actually think that over the years i've
learned
the importance of marking your comfort
zone and telling people
i don't want to go further than that and
i think that also makes you grow as a
person it makes you stronger and
it also teaches you to kind of you know
just
draw your boundaries and be unapologetic
about them
and that's also okay i think it is
important to occasionally
cross your comfort zone boundaries when
you feel like it is the right thing to
do
but i also think that there are some
things where you're just allowed to put
your foot down and say no
i don't want that and to learn to do
that
so yes it's definitely out of my comfort
zone to you know
move abroad and just do something now
maybe not so much because i've done it
now quite a few times
but back then it definitely was and i do
think that that made me grow
significantly
but i also think that for example it is
out of my comfort zone to drink alcohol
i just don't want it
and yes i have had moments where people
did try to pressure me like
come on everybody has a drink like you
don't want to drink water and i was like
actually i do and you don't get to
pressure me into drinking
um and the person when i said it like
that realized
what they were actually doing and they
apologized
but you know it took a lot of courage on
my inside to actually say that
because i'm incredibly shy um so yeah
i know i put my life on the internet but
i'm super super shy
and i'm so awkward in person um
but yeah that's why it you know it took
like a lot of courage for me to do that
but drawing my boundary felt
really good so yeah also sometimes stay
in your comfort zone
and don't apologize for it and yeah that
is my
reflection on my reflection on my high
school experience
um so it's been two years since i
graduated um
and yeah i still love uwc
i have some criticism about it but i'm
still incredibly incredibly grateful to
them for
everything they've done for me and they
have definitely changed my life
a lot and you can't really put into
words how much
these two years changed you and i think
i'm still going to learn a lot in my
life about how they actually changed me
but i am so so grateful for the people
who chose to give a scholarship to me
to give me that experience because you
guys
really really did a really big thing for
me thank you
and if you guys want to join the uwc
movement this is not a paid
advertisement okay
um but if you guys want to join the
german national committee
has opened its applications for
applicants i'm gonna link it down below
in the infobox if you guys are
interested
and if you guys aren't german speakers
then i'm also gonna link the
international uwc website down below
and yeah thank you so much for watching
this video i hope you enjoyed it have a
nice day
[Music]
bye
you